And now, to reinforce the
concepts learned, to better
understand ROE, ROA and the formula,
what we will do is look
at three examples.
We'll compare three companies,
two gyms and a consultant.
First, to understand the analysis
well, keep in mind that in the three
cases we are going from the
assumption that we get a beneficiary
of half a million euros.
Start with the gym.
The A gym is a capital-intensive
model and investment-intensive,
because you have to buy
machinery, make a local reform,
etc., and you have an asset
of one million euros, a non-
current asset.
How did the A-Gym partner
finance?
How did you finance that million?
It is a net property.
There is no leverage here.
Let us go to the formula.
Let us calculate it.
We want to calculate what is
the profitability of the partners'
own funds.
And we start by calculating the
profitability of the asset, the ROA.
And the ROA in this case, what is the
net profit?
Remember that we said that the
net profit is half a million divided
by the total asset, which
is one million euros.
So we have a ROA of 0.5.
We have to multiply it, in
this case, by leverage, but
as we have seen, we have
funded the gym only with own
funds, therefore, there is
no multiplier.
The multiplier is one.
In this case, the ROE, the
profitability of the equity is exactly
the same as the profitability
of the asset, because there has
been no multiplier.
Let's take the second example, which is
the B gym.
It is a gym very similar to the
A-Gym.
It has a million euros in assets,
it is the investment.
In this case, the partners have
decided to ask for half a million
euros of debt.
So the financial structure
we see in the balance sheet,
in the right block, what we see
is that half a million euros
is net asset, equity and
the other half a million
is debt.
And let's go to the formula and see
how this affects the ROE, the
profitability of the partners who have
put half a million euros.
Well, the first thing we start with
the profitability of the asset, which
is the same as in gym A, because it
is the same asset and they get the same...
They are getting the same benefits.
Half a million between one million
of the active, a ROE of 0.
5, as before.
What happens is that here there
is a leverage effect, there is
a multiplier effect and we can
calculate it in the formula.
Look at how simple it is, it is
the asset, which is one million euros,
divided between equity, divided between
half a million, which is equal to 2.
In this case, we have doubled the
profitability of our own
funds, because instead of putting
a million euros, we have put half.
It is very easy to understand that way.
And finally, we come to a very different
model, which is a consultant.
Unlike the gyms, which are more resource-
intensive, in this case the investment
is very low, the assets
are very small, because
you do not need almost
anything to start operating.
Well, let's consider that the
asset is 50,000 euros.
The non-current asset, which could
be, I don't know, some computers,
some real estate, etc.
of 50,000 euros.
And in this case we will consider that
there is no leverage, it is very little
money and we have put it to the
partners.
But we also have a net profit
of half a million, right?
We will calculate the profitability
in this case.
The profitability of the equity
is equal to the profitability of
the asset by the multiplier.
Let us start with the end in this
case.
There is no multiplier, because there
has been no leverage.
We have invested 50,000 euros with
our own funds.
The difference here, with respect to
gyms, is that the profitability
of the asset is much higher.
Why is it?
The investment is very small,
it is 50,000 euros.
We will calculate the road.
A half million from 50,000 euros.
We have a ROAD of 10, which is
equal to ROE, to the profitability
of our own funds, because we have
not leveraged.
If we had been pushed, it would
have been even bigger.
As you can see here, we are seeing how
the different structure of one
model or another makes the profitability
increase enormously.